[DOC] Composability of different threading runtimes (#26950)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/articles_en/openvino-workflow/running-inference/inference-devices-and-modes/cpu-device/performance-hint-and-thread-scheduling.rst

For details on multi-stream execution check the
:doc:`optimization guide <../../optimize-inference/optimizing-throughput/advanced_throughput_options>`.

.. _Inference_threads_wait_actively:

> Inference threads wait actively

Reviewer: Since this is generic threading tips page I would ask you to formalize the description in more format way:
1. Case you are describing is an example of serial composability of different threading runtimes. So it should be name of the section.
2. We need to formalize the application that we are focusing on: pipeline with multiple OV inferences interleaved with some other application logic (maybe calls to another library) executed sequentially.
3. We need to describe the reason of performance issues in that scenarion. Actually you already shared some info about active searching for work which takes CPU resources. It worth to explicitly mentioned that it is true for both TBB and OMP so threads migration between areas will happen twice per pipeline iteration.
4. 1ms is very specific to particular library - would avoid detailed numbers
5. Lets describe all possible sotuion:
5.1. Most effective is to use oneTBB for all computations made in pipeline 
5.2. Rebuilding OV with OMP from source is another option,
5.3. Limit number of threads / disable pinning for OV or other parts of the pipeline to let OS do better scheduling.
5.4. In case second runtime is OMP user can set OMP_WAIT_POLICY=PASSIVE to minimize perf gap on OMP->TBB runtime switch.

@wangleis Do you have anything to add?

Reviewer 2: LGTM, Thanks.

For details on multi-stream execution check the
:doc:`optimization guide <../../optimize-inference/optimizing-throughput/advanced_throughput_options>`.

.. _Composability_of_different_threading_runtimes:

Composability of different threading runtimes
#############################################

OpenVINO is by default built with the `oneTBB <https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneTBB/>`__ threading library,

> oneTBB has a feature` worker_wait`, similar to `OpenMP <https://www.openmp.org/>`__ `busy-wait <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/GOMP_005fSPINCOUNT.html>`__, which makes OpenVINO inference

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
oneTBB has a feature `worker_wait`, similar to `OpenMP <https://www.openmp.org/>`__ `busy-wait <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/GOMP_005fSPINCOUNT.html>`__, which makes OpenVINO inference
```

threads wait actively for a while after a task done. The intention is to avoid CPU inactivity in the
transition time between inference tasks. 

In the pipeline that runs OpenVINO inferences on the CPU along with other sequential application logic, using different threading runtimes (e.g., OpenVINO inferences use oneTBB,
while other application logic uses OpenMP) will cause both to occupy CPU cores for additional time after the task done, leading to overhead. 

Recommended solutions:

- The most effective way is to use oneTBB for all computations made in the pipeline.
- Rebuild OpenVINO with OpenMP if other application logic uses OpenMP.

> - Limit the number of threads for OpenVINO and other parts to improve OS scheduling.

Author: ```suggestion
- Limit the number of threads for OpenVINO and other parts and let OS do the scheduling.
```

For details on multi-stream execution check the
:doc:`optimization guide <../../optimize-inference/optimizing-throughput/advanced_throughput_options>`.

> .. Composability_of_different_threading_runtimes:

Author: ```suggestion
.. _Composability_of_different_threading_runtimes:
```

Composability of different threading runtimes
#############################################

OpenVINO is by default built with `oneTBB <https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneTBB/>`__ threading library,
oneTBB has a feature worker_wait like `OpenMP <https://www.openmp.org/>`__ `busy-wait <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/GOMP_005fSPINCOUNT.html>`__ which makes OpenVINO inference
threads wait actively for a while after task done. The intention is to avoid CPU inactive in the
tranaction time between tasks of inference. 

In the pipeline that runs OpenVINO inferences on CPU interleaved with some other application logic executed
sequentially. If two parts use different threading runtimes, for example, OpenVINO inferences use oneTBB
while other application logic uses OpenMP, both will occupy CPU cores for addtional time after task done.
This may introduce unecessary overhead. 

> *Recommend solutions*

Author: ```suggestion
Recommend solutions

```

For details on multi-stream execution check the
:doc:`optimization guide <../../optimize-inference/optimizing-throughput/advanced_throughput_options>`.

.. _Composability_of_different_threading_runtimes:

Composability of different threading runtimes
#############################################

OpenVINO is by default built with `oneTBB <https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneTBB/>`__ threading library,
oneTBB has a feature worker_wait like `OpenMP <https://www.openmp.org/>`__ `busy-wait <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/GOMP_005fSPINCOUNT.html>`__ which makes OpenVINO inference
threads wait actively for a while after task done. The intention is to avoid CPU inactive in the

> tranaction time between tasks of inference. 

Reviewer: tranaction?

Author: Changed to transition

> tranaction time between tasks of inference. 

Author: ```suggestion
transition time between tasks of inference. 
```

In the pipeline that runs OpenVINO inferences on CPU interleaved with some other application logic executed
sequentially. If two parts use different threading runtimes, for example, OpenVINO inferences use oneTBB
while other application logic uses OpenMP, both will occupy CPU cores for addtional time after task done.

> This may introduce unecessary overhead. 

Reviewer: unnecessary

> This may introduce unecessary overhead. 

Author: ```suggestion
This may introduce unnecessary overhead. 
```

> Recommend solutions

Reviewer: Recommended

> Recommend solutions

Author: ```suggestion
Recommended solutions
```

- Most effective way is to use oneTBB for all computations made in pipeline.

> - Rebuild OpenVINO with OpenMP and other application logic uses OpenMP as well.

Reviewer: "and" -> "in case'?

> - Rebuild OpenVINO with OpenMP and other application logic uses OpenMP as well.

Author: ```suggestion
- Rebuild OpenVINO with OpenMP in case other application logic uses OpenMP.
```

- Limit number of threads of OpenVINO and other parts to let OS do better scheduling.

> - Set environment variable `OMP_WAIT_POLICY <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/OMP_005fWAIT_005fPOLICY.html>`__ to PASSIVE which will disable OpenMP `busy-wait <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/GOMP_005fSPINCOUNT.html>`__

Reviewer: Still need to mentioned that other part on application should use OMP underneath

> - Set environment variable `OMP_WAIT_POLICY <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/OMP_005fWAIT_005fPOLICY.html>`__ to PASSIVE which will disable OpenMP `busy-wait <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/GOMP_005fSPINCOUNT.html>`__

Author: ```suggestion
- In case other application logic uses OpenMP, set environment variable `OMP_WAIT_POLICY <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/OMP_005fWAIT_005fPOLICY.html>`__ to PASSIVE which will disable OpenMP `busy-wait <https://gcc.gnu.org/onlinedocs/libgomp/GOMP_005fSPINCOUNT.html>`__
```
